>> Richard Feldman: Decode.map is
something we're using in quite a few
places in the code base.
So one example of it is
the one that we saw earlier,
where we needed to translate the body
into a full body on the article.
So this is an example of using decode.map
to essentially wrap a value that we're
getting as one of our
fields in some other type.
So the purpose of this was that
we have two notions of article,
we have article full and
we have article preview.
And in this case, when we're decoding
the preview, we wanna hard code it and
say yeah, we're not gonna look for
any additional info on there,
it's just a preview.
There's no body associated with it,
so don't worry about it.
And in this case, we want to say we have
an article full, and we use decode.map to
say not only do I want to decode the body,
which is the same as body decoder.
But once that's done,
I want to, if it's successful,
transform that success value by wrapping
it in this full value right here.
And full is defined like this, so
it's a function that takes a body and
returns a full value.
Okay, so that's one example.
Another pretty common example
we can see in this right here.
So here we have a comment.
Comment, like so many other types in our
program, is opaque and it looks like this.
This is a pretty common strategy that I
like to use for representing opaque types
while still getting access to the nice
record constructor for decoding purposes.
So I'll define alias called internals,
that represents the record that I can
work with internally to this module.
I don't ever expose it to the outside
world, and then I can use it for
JSON decoding.
So I have comment,
which has one variant, and
its sole variant has one argument,
which is internals.
And as previously discussed,
in terms of run time representation,
that means that because it's a single
variant with a single value inside of it.
Elm's going to unbox this and at run time,
this is just going to be as if I'd used
a record, plain with no wrapper around it.
But for compile side purposes, I do
actually need to specify that wrapping.
So when I'm using this internal's decoder,
I'm essentially writing as if I had
used this as my fundamental data type.
I'm gonna decode into this.
It's gonna follow the same pathway we saw
on the slides, we're gonna require this,
which is gonna be the first
argument to that function.
This will be the second, this will be
the third, this will be the fourth.
And then once those are done, we know now
after having gone through those slides,
this expression will evaluate
to a decoder internals.
>> Richard Feldman: But
that's not what we want.
What we want is a decoder comment.
And in order to map it to a comment, we
can just take this expression right here
and say once we're done
decoding into internals,
just wrap it in a comment, no problem.
And that's all there is to it.
This is a pretty common
way of translating,
sort of getting the best of both worlds.
Getting to use the record
constructor internally for
convenience while still exposing an opaque
type to the outside world for a decoder.
So to recap, we talked about
pipeline types and how those work,
talked about Decode.andThen.
We talked about decoderizing,
so that's with the ISO 8601,
we sort of decoderize that from a result
into a decoder by using decode.andThen.
And finally, we talked about
intermediate representations, so
the idea of using internals only for
the purpose of creating a decoder.
Not exposing it to the outside world, and
just using that as an intermediate step.
And then using decode.map to convert from
that intermediate representation into
the one that the outside
world actually sees.
One more note on intermediate
representations is that if you want,
you can take that a few steps further.
And use it with Decode.andThen or
something else to decode into
some record that kind of has
no relation to what the internal,
the final representations going to be.
But which just get into the record so
you can work with it more
nicely in your Elm logic.
If you have some complicated andThen
code or something like that to work on.